Numerical assessment on the effect of ventilation capability of kitchen hoods depending on operating condition, design parameters and installation location.

This research investigates the effects of various factors of a residential hood on its capability of removing pollutants generated during cooking process. For this purpose, capture efficiency, the ratio of pollutant generated and removed at steady state, is chosen as a key performance index. 
A number of numerical simulations are performed to quantify the effect on each parameter. Parameters used in this study includes flow rate, size of the hood, filter area, the location of cooking pots and installation height of the hood. Simulation results reveal that the physical dimension of the hood and installation condition are as important as flow rate of the hood. Increasing flow rate also can lead a higher capture efficiency, but the capture efficiency increased with flow rate only if it is combined with proper design and location of the hood. Otherwise, the capture efficiency is plateaued above certain flow rate.
A parametric study showed that each factor has a significantly different level of impact on the capture efficiency. Among the parameters, depth of the hood and installation location are the most important. The width of hood and the location of the pollutant source are less significant, but they also can alter saturation flow rate. Optimizing inlet also improved capture efficiency by a few percent without design change or a penalty in flow rate. However, the analysis on flow field implied that the level of significance can be altered if the boundary condition changed.
The capture efficiencies of the hoods differ by an order of magnitude depending on the combination of parameters, although none of them were implausible. It implies that the finding of the study would be useful for kitchen hood manufacturers, architects and HVAC engineers.

The concerns about indoor air quality have rapidly increased in recent years, especially after COVID-19 outbreak. Rising interest on indoor air quality has directed towards effectively and timely removing obnoxious gases and particulate matters from the residential area to outdoor. 
It is obvious that the ventilation system plays a key role in maintaining the indoor air quality. Without proper ventilation, people would experience discomforts. In longer term, poor ventilation can yield respiratory diseases. Well-designed ventilation system not helps expelling pollutants, bacteria, and unpleasant odors effectively, but also provides thermal comfort to habitants. Therefore, designing an effective ventilation system is an important for not only Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) engineers, but also architects and healthcare professionals. 
Kitchen is a critical place in terms of maintaining indoor air quality of houses because cooking process inevitably generates heats, moisture, gases, airborne pollutants and oil fumes. All of these matters deteriorate indoor air quality and even can adversely impacts residents' health. Several studies already asserted the health risk due to the cooking process. Li and Delsante found that the degradation of sugar, fat, or protein during cooking may generate harmful substances, including polycyclic aromatic compounds(PAC). Thiebaud et al. claimed that the fumes generated by frying meat are mutagenic. Work by Vainiotalo also showed cooking fumes contain hazardous substances. Findings from these studies indicate that kitchen worker are exposed to relatively high levels of obnoxious gases and airborne pollutants, which are mutagens and carcinogens. 
In the kitchen, ventilation process is usually done by range hoods. Normally located above the stove, hoods are designed to exhaust burnt gas and pollutants generated from the cooking. As described by Abanto and Reggio, a hood can be seen as a turbomachine which expels gases from a given environment during operating conditions. The location of a hood may lead to cross-drafts across the walls. Generation and strengths of the drafts depends on the kitchen configuration including location of air supply diffusers, doorways, windows, or aisle ways relative to the position of the hood. 
Comprehensive review on indoor ventilation performance, including state-of-the-art ventilation systems can be found in the literature. However, the most important index for measuring the performance of hoods is, obviously, its ability to remove contaminants from the kitchen. This capability of hoods is usually referred as capture efficiency. However, unlike basic parameters such as noise level or flow rate, it is not easy to define and measure capture efficiency. A number of different definitions for capture efficiency are available in the literature, but the basic concept is similar. The term 'capture efficiency' can broadly be defined as the ratio of the amount of contaminants introduced and expelled in a control volume. Madsen et al. and Geerinck et al. investigated that a validated numerical model is used for estimation of the capture efficiency.  Li and Delsante suggested a modified derivation of the capture efficiency of kitchen range hoods in a confined space. Chen et al. presented several models that can predict ventilation performance including analytical, empirical, experimental, multi-zone network and numerical models.
Previous studies have assessed various factors affecting the capture efficiency of hoods. Some are dependent on work practices, such as movements of kitchen workers, the characteristics and location of cooktop and the installed location of the hood. Other papers proved that physical characteristics including the shape of the hood, geometry of filters also can affect capture efficiency of the hood. Last but not least, operating condition of hood, such as exhaust flow rate, is a key parameter as well. 
Besides experimental approach, numerical approach based on computational fluid dynamics(CFD) can be used as a tool for investigating the phenomenon. CFD is a powerful tool to evaluate capture efficiency of hood. CFD not only calculates the capture efficiency, but also can provide information about the airflow around the hood, spreading of pollutants, temperature distribution, and overall indoor air quality.
Several studies that used CFD to analyze kitchen hood performance have already been published. Study by Abanto and Reggio focused on the numerical investigation of the flow in the kitchen. Numerical simulations performed by Lim and Lee analyzed the indoor air environment in a kitchen when separation plates with different shapes were adopted to the hood. In their study, the flow characteristics of a kitchen hood system were also numerically investigated by comparing the flow field, temperature, and concentration distribution for the kitchen hood system with and without the separation plate. 
This study also investigates the capture efficiency of kitchen hood and corresponding flow characteristics by using three dimensional CFD simulations. As mentioned, many studies have already investigated the capture efficiency of the kitchen hoods and ventilation systems with numerical methods. However only few have focused on the relationship between design and operating parameters of the hood and the capture efficiency. The main purpose of this work is therefore to quantify the effects of various parameters on capture efficiency. 
In this paper, parameters are carefully selected through the market analysis and literature review. A series of numerical simulations are performed with selected variables, then the impact of each factor on capture efficiency is analyzed based on results, making general assessment on capture efficiency of the hoods.

As mentioned in the previous section, this study uses CFD based numerical approach to calculate the capture efficiency. CFD solver provides the solution based on the discretized form of the Navier-Stokes equations on grid points defined in the computational domain. It is possible to capture the flow patterns and distribution of physical quantities by analyzing the simulation results since solution from the solver but includes and microscopic description about the flow field as well.
Commercially available CFD solver, Siemens Star-CCM+ (version 13.06), was used in this study.  Carbon dioxide (CO2) was used as a tracer gas that represents pollutant generated from cooking process. To reduce computation costs, air was considered as a single component and assumed not to interact with carbon dioxide.
The pollutant generation is emulated by treating a cooktop as a pollutant source. High temperature air and CO2 are assumed to be generated on top of the cooktop with constant rate. The amount and velocity of CO2 are determined from the experiments. To take into account the natural ventilation effect, gravity and buoyancy are also taken into account by applying a proper boundary and initial conditions.
Temperature distribution in the domain is also computed simultaneously using the energy equation. Although CO2 was considered as inert gas, a species transport equation is also solved together with the other equations since it is necessary to analyze the behavior of the tracer gas dispersed into the ambient air. 
According to the assumption, the governing equation for this study is three dimensional and incompressible Navier-Stokes equation. By nature, the airflow in the ventilated room is always turbulent, and turbulence in the flow is characterized by eddies of varying length and time scales. However, solving the Navier-Stokes equation for all scales of eddies is nearly impossible this study due to the very large memory requirements and computation time. To remedy this problem, the Reynolds averaging is performed over the Navier-Stokes equations. Among various methods of Reynolds averaging, realizable k-e model which has been used over decades is used for this study.
Two-layer wall function, modification of standard wall function provided by the Star-CCM+, is applied at the wall boundaries to compensate the steep gradients of the dependent parameters near the wall surfaces. 

Figure 1 depicts the computational domain and its dimension. Fig 1(a) represents a reduced model or the kitchen and the hood for calculating the capture efficiency, and Fig. 1(b) shows the transparent view of the modeled hood used for flow rate verification. Although the dimensions of residential kitchens and the size and styles of hoods and home appliances are diverse, basic furnishing styles and size ranges can be obtained from the previous studies and the regulations. Based on literature review, the representative design and parameters are attained. The geometric dimension of the hood in Fig. 1(a) and (b) are the same except the air inlet and fan. In Fig. 1(b) air inlets are extended 100mm for better convergence, and the fan and fan scroll are actually modeled to verify flow rate of the hood. 
Smaller mesh will provide better accuracy, but increasing number of cells inevitably increases computational costs. Therefore, mesh size must be optimized in prior to research by several trial-and-error runs. This procedure, called grid independency test, is an essential for CFD research. Grid independency test confirms whether the solution obtained from CFD solver is not significantly dependent on the size of the mesh size. It also checks for conservation and boundedness of the solution. To demonstrate the accuracy of the presented numerical results, grid independence test was performed with various mesh size and confirmed the grid independence is achieved for the computational domain.
The grid is composed of polyhedral mesh system with local mesh refinement in critical regions and prism layers in near-wall region. Figure 2 shows the cross sectional view of the computational domain. With this size, mesh was seemed to be fine enough to capture all the details of tracer gas distribution and significant flow characteristics. 
The boundary conditions and initial conditions are illustrated in Figure 3. The room wall and the burner wall are solid and the no-slip boundary condition is applied. The walls are also assumed to be impermeable and adiabatic. Stagnation-inlet boundary condition has been imposed at the other sides of the kitchen (capture efficiency calculation) or inlets of the hood (flow rate verification). Zero-gauge pressure is set at pressure outlet boundaries. The temperature and volume fractions of air and CO2 mixture at the inlet of the pots is used as the boundary conditions. As shown in Fig. 3(a), two pots located at the center of the stove. The concentration of tracer gas is set to zero except pollutant source. A diffusion-convection equation was utilized to predict the local mass percentage of the pollution. 
Simulations for predicting capture efficiency are performed with steady state condition, while flow rate verifications are run with the implicit unsteady model. For both cases, the segregated solver was used to obtain results for flow, energy and turbulence throughout the computational domain. The difference between two simulations is summarized in Table 1. For both cases, segregated solver and second order upwind scheme is used.
There could be numerous factors that can affect the capture efficiency of the hood, but this study selects 6 different factors; 3 from hood dimensions (depth, width and filter size) and 2 from relative position of cooking pots (distance between cooktop and hood in z-axis and the position of pots in y direction), and flow rate. Figure 4 illustrates the definition of each parameter. Table 2. Summarizes the values of each parameter with default values in bold. Range of each parameter is chosen from the commercially available products.
Although the key performance index for this study is capture efficiency, the results of simulation are not merely given as a single number. For better understanding of physics, results are organized to describe the important features of the air flow within the computational domain. First, the variables related to the geometry of hoods are analyzed. As a next step, the influence of the installation condition is tested based on the previous results. For all cases, the flow rate of the hood is set as an independent variable, ranging from 150 to 600 CMH.
Capture efficiency of hoods as a function of flow rate with different hood depth is given in Figure 5. It clearly shows that that hood efficiency significantly improves as the depth of the hood increases. It is also worth mentioning the capture efficiency is not linearly correlated with flow rate. For the hood with 300mm and 400mm depth, capture efficiency is plateaued after flow rate reaches 300 CMH. However, the efficiency monotonically increases with flow rate up to 600 CMH for 200mm and 500mm cases.
Figure 6 shows the tracer gas distribution in y-z plane, and it explains the effect of hood depth more clearly. As shown, the concentration distribution at the bottom of hood inlet is around 0.0004 when the depth is 200mm, but it increases to 0.02 for 500mm depth cases. It is also observed that tracer gas starts to disperse in downwards as depth of the hood decreases, which means that the hood cannot inhale the pollutant effectively.
The velocity field of the computational domain near hood entrance is given in Figure 7. The air flow from the ceiling generates vortex when it interacts with front side of the hood. For the hood with bigger depth, this vortex hampers the fresh air directly entering to the hood. However, this vortex motion shrinks as depth decreases. Decreased vortex motion makes fresh air enter to the hood inlet more easily, resulting lowered capture efficiency. 
The effect of hood width on capture efficiency is shown in Figure 8. The depth of the hood is set to 500mm. Similar to the depth of the hood, the width of hood shows positive effect on capture efficiency, but, the magnitude is smaller. Unlike the depth of the hood, however, the saturation flow rate is not observed for all cases. Due to absence of saturation flow rate, the sensitivity of flow rate on capture efficiency is also larger.
In Figure 9, the tracer gas distribution is depicted in x-z plane. The concentration distribution at the bottom of hood inlet is around 0.0012 when the depth is 200mm, but it increases to 0.02 for 500mm depth cases. Contrary to the tracer gas distribution in y-z plane in Figure 6, significant leakage of tracer gas is observed of in x-z plane. The discrepancy seems to come from the boundary conditions. While the ceil and floor are treated as wall, sides are considered as stagnation inlet, allowing gas to escape or enter. Therefore, the capture efficiency would be significantly different if one or both of side boundaries are set as no-slip wall since kitchen configuration can alter the air flow from the inlet to the hood. 
In short, both the depth and width of the hood show ‘the larger the better’ characteristics. As the size of the hood increases, the geometric coverage increases, reducing the chance of tracer gas leakage. For the kitchen configuration used in this study, the depth of the hood shows bigger impact on capture efficiency than the width of the hood, but the tracer gas distribution implies that relative magnitude can be changed if the boundary condition changes.
The effect of filter size on capture efficiency is given in Figure 10. The size of filter is altered while fixing the outside dimension of the hood at the best case (900mm by 500mm). The size of filter is set to 400mm x 380mm, and offset is given by 100mm interval up to 200mm in each direction. In contrast to geometric dimension, the area of filter is not a larger the better characteristic. Figure 10 shows that the capture efficiency of the hood slightly increases as filter size decreases in depth-wise direction. 
To illustrate the effect of reducing the filter depth on capture efficiency, streamline is plotted with tracer gas concentration in Figure 11. Flow rate is fixed at 300 CMH, and streamline is calculated from the hood outlet, then integrated backwards. As the filter depth reduces, the fresh air from the top is less likely to mix with tracer gas from the pots, reducing the changes of tracer gas leak to the side shown in Figure 9. 
Unlike the depth of the filter, however, offsetting the filter in width direction adversely affects the capture efficiency. This inconsistency can be explained with the same analysis given in Figure 11. but with the streamline starting from the tracer gas source and integrated forward direction. 
As shown in Figure 9, tracer gas from the source tends to flow to the sideways when it hits the bottom plate of the hood. Therefore, reducing the filter depth would generate an effect similar to decreasing the hood width, deteriorating capture efficiency. Same as the width of the hood, the impact of changing filter width could be different if the side walls are blocked. 
Although the offsetting the filter in depth-wise direction can improve capture efficiency, reducing inlet area can result deteriorated flow rate due to increased flow resistance. Therefore, flow rate at same fan speed must be verified. As shown in Fig 2(b), hood and fan is modeled separately, then rotating motion is applied to the air region near the fan. The outlet of the ventilation duct is set as pressure outlet, meaning that negative pressure is formed at the stagnation inlet as fan rotates. Fan rotating speed and back pressure ranges from 1200 to 2000 RPM and from 0 to 300 Pa, respectively.
The change of flow rate as a function of RPM and back pressure is given in Figure 13, with back pressure defined in IEC 61591 standard. All the dimensions are set as default. It can be seen that the back pressure can be higher than 200 Pa when the air flow rate is around 600 CMH, and fan speed should be 2000 RPM to overcome 200 Pa back pressure. For this reason, 2000 RPM of fan speed is used for flow rate verification.
Figure 14 shows the flow rate of the hood as a function of filter offset and back pressure. It is observed that flow rate does not change much even if the area of filter reduced by half. From this result, it is possible to conclude that reducing the filter size in depth direction can improve capture efficiency of the hood without hurting flow rate as long as RPM is maintained. However, it should be noted that reducing filter size can bring other drawbacks other than flow rate. For instance, faster air velocity may increase noise level, and increased pressure difference may cause higher energy consumption due to increased pumping work.

The section below describes the effect of the other parameters related installation condition of the hood. Geometric parameters of the hood are set as default values defined in Table 2, unless specified. Installation condition determines the relative distance between the contamination source and the hood. 
Figure 15 illustrates the change of the capture efficiency when the installation height changes. It can be seen that the capture efficiency dramatically improves as installation height decreases. The distribution of tracer gas concentration is given in Figure 16. It is observed that the average concentration of tracer gas in hood inlet dramatically decreases as installation height increases. This results imply that the hood tends to inhale ambient air, not a tracer gas, when the hood is installed at higher position. 
If increased installation height is combined narrow depth, as in Fig. 16(d), a hood barely removes the tracer gas from the kitchen regardless of flow rates. It is guessed that that increased flow of ambient air impedes upward flow of tracer gas, pushing tracer gas to the bottom side of the kitchen. If this is true, the sensitivity to vertical distance would be stronger if the pollutants are heavier or the effect of natural ventilation decreases.
The capture efficiency with respect to the location of pots is shown in Figure 17. Similar to installation height, the capture efficiency increases as pots move towards the wall. Since the wall is assumed to be impermeable, the tracer gas would have limited space to spread out if the source was near the wall. 
Although trends are the same, but the degree of improvement is much larger in case of 200mm depth compared to 500mm cases. A possible explanation for this observation is that the geometric relationship between pots and hood body affects the capture efficiency. As shown in Figure 18, projected area of the hood inlet can cover most of pots at the worst case. However, for 200mm cases, coverage area dramatically increases as the pots move to walls, thereby the capture efficiency differs by far as the location of tracer gas source moves. 
Another observation is that the saturation flow rate starts to appear 200mm cases when pots are located 55mm from the wall, meaning that the saturation flow rate is not only a function of geometric design of the hood, but also geometric relationship between hood and the contaminant sources.
 Overall, it is the possible to say that capture efficiency improves when the relative distance between the hood outlet and the source of pollutant decreases; installation height decreased or pot is pushed to the back. This is because the shortened distance means that pollutant would have less time to spread. However, HVAC engineer should be very careful to choose set-up of the hood since installing the hood very close to the cooktop might cause safety issues. For example, many hood manufacturers claim that distance between the hob surface and the lowest part of the range hood should be at least 650mm, for both electric and gas cooktops.
In this study, the capture efficiency of the range hood under the various conditions is investigated by using numerical approach. First, the correlation between capture efficiency and hood design is analyzed, then the influence of installation condition is addressed. For all cases, the effect of flow rates is simultaneously investigated. Following conclusions are obtained from the simulations:
- The relationship between capture efficiency and airflow rate is not monotonic. At low flow rate, the capture efficiency increased with flow rates. However, there is a saturation point where the capture efficiency is plateaued of slightly decreased even if the flow rate increases. 
- Increasing the projection area of hood improves the capture efficiency in all cases. The capture efficiency is dramatically improved when the depth of the hood increases. The width of hood also positively impacts the capture efficiency, but not as much as the depth of the hood.
- Unlike the size of the hood, larger filter size does not guarantee higher capture efficiency. Reducing the depth of the filter improves capture efficiency. The flow rate remains about the same up to 50% of reduction in each direction. 
- Capture efficiency is also strongly influenced by installation conditions. It is shown that capture efficiency increases when decreasing the clearance height or pushing pots to the wall side. However, the clearance height and the position of pots are limited due to safety reasons. 
- Saturation flow rate is not constant, rather it is determined by geometry of the hood and relative location of the pollutant source. However, the relationship is not linear. In general, increasing flow rate of hood also affects the movement of makeup air movement. However, the capture efficiency cannot be improved if hood tends to inhale ambient air rather than pollutant from the bottom. 
Capture efficiencies obtained from simulations differed by an order of magnitude under the same kitchen configuration and the same amount of pollutant generation. It means that proper design and installation of hood brings could bring significant improvements in the ventilation system.
The findings of this work would be useful for professionals working on the design and operations of kitchen hoods. However, the work on systematic analysis on pressure drop of the exhaust system would be required to estimate actual ventilating performance of the hood, estimating the capture efficiency more accurately. Furthermore, the impact of kitchen hood operation on room depressurization, back-drafting, and changing airflow also must be addressed for the safety purpose.
