An Experimental Study on the Diffusion Phenomenon of Particulate Matters Generated During Heating Cooking and Ventilation Effects by Kitchen Hoods

Abstract
A substantial amount of pollutants are generated during cooking processes, making kitchen ventilation crucial for maintaining indoor air quality. This study experimentally investigated the diffusion patterns of particulate matter(PM 2.5) and the change of its dispersing pattern according to the airflow rate of the kitchen hood. By analyzing the time-resolved concentration profile of PM 2.5 during cooking in a chamber, it was discovered that particulate matter generated during cooking dispersed through the front and side sections of the hood first, arriving at the ceiling with a slight time lag, and then spreading throughout the remainder of the kitchen. Even with a relatively low airflow rate, the average PM 2.5 concentration significantly decreased compared to when the hood was not operated. Moreover, there exists an exponential relationship between the concentration of PM 2.5 during cooking and the airflow rate of the hood. When the hood is turned on after the PM 2.5 has already spread due to non-operation during cooking, the relationship between the concentration of particulate matter and the recovery time after turning on the hood shows a linear correlation. These findings not only enhance our understanding of the diffusion patterns of pollutants in kitchens, but also serve as a base dataset for developing automatic ventilation systems incorporating sensors/IoT, aiming at minimizing energy loss while maximizing capture efficiency of the hoods.

Keywords: Indoor air quality, Ventilation, Particulate Matter, Cooking, Kitchen hood

Introduction

Most people today spend over 85% of their daily lives indoors, with nearly 70% of this time spent within their own homes [1]. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), air pollution causes six million deaths annually, with 47% attributed to indoor air pollution [2]. As a result, Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) standards have been established to assess air quality levels affecting individuals living in enclosed spaces. Recently, there has been a global trend toward stricter IAQ regulations. Despite these efforts, pollutants such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and particulate matter released during food preparation pose risks to residents' health. Infants, young children, and the elderly who have weaker immune systems are particularly vulnerable to exposure to these pollutants. If proper ventilation or air conditioning is not maintained, contaminants will spread throughout the entire house, including the kitchen, living room, and bedrooms. Therefore, managing air quality in the kitchen is a pressing public health issue. A recent study estimated that the annual death toll from diseases caused by pollutants produced during cooking in the European Union alone reaches 40,000 which is twice the number of traffic accident victims [3].

Among the various pollutants generated during cooking, extensive research has focused on the adverse impact of ultrafine particles (UFPs, aerodynamic diameter <100 nm) on human health, since it is known that cooking is the most important source of UFPs among non-smoking households [4]. Due to their smaller size, UFPs possess a far greater numerical concentration and surface area per unit mass than larger particles, leading to increased inflammation potential, higher estimated lung deposition, and enhanced translocation capacity [5]. In addition, Metayer et al. reported a possible link between cooking habits and the occurrence of lung cancer [6].

Besides external ventilation, the use of range hoods to the most common method to discharge pollutants in the kitchen. By using the state-of-the art technology, modern hoods are designed to effectively exhaust burnt gas and pollutants generated from the stove located below. A few studies have demonstrated their effectiveness in reducing particulate matters during cooking [7, 8]. However, using a range hood inevitably leads to outdoor air infiltration corresponding to the volume of extracted indoor air. Since the external air is not properly treated in terms of temperature and humidity, excessive flow rates may result in unnecessary energy consumption for heating or cooling purposes. Furthermore, advanced range hood designs incorporate additional fans to facilitate pollutant discharge and utilize sensors and Internet of Things(IoT) technology for automated ventilation. Nevertheless, there remains a lack of consideration regarding getting stable contaminant measurement, suitable locations for representative sensors, and effective ventilation strategies based on contamination levels.

In previous work, authors used computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to investigate changes in capture efficiency resulting from different factors including operating conditions, design parameters, and installation location [9]. In this study, authors sought to verify the benefits of using range hoods and develop effective operation strategies through experimentatal approach.. More specifically, this study aims to examine the concentration and diffusion patterns of fine substances generated during grilled mackerel cooking, known to produce significant amounts of fine dust, along with the associated performance of range hoods

Materials and Methods

Test chamber and Equipment
As mentioned, his study aimed to replicate actual cooking processes in a kitchen setting and prevent cross-contamination from other sources. To achieve this, experiments were performed in a simulation chamber following IEC specifications [10], which are widely accepted as international standards. The chamber had a volume of 22 ± 2 m³ and was connected to the exterior via a hood. During operation, outside air entered through an intake located at the front, equipped with an air dispersion screen to minimize any influence from drafts. A cooking apparatus was placed directly below the center of the hood, and an electric-powered induction stove was used for heating to eliminate fluctuations caused by gas combustion and draft, allowing us to observe the impact of UFPs solely from the cooked materials. Figure 1 presents the dimensions of the experimental chamber.

Figure 1. Geometric dimensions for the IEC-61591 compliant test chamber [10].

Based on the pilot tests, PM 2.5(Particles smaller than 2.5 micrometers in diameter) is selective as a representative pollutant generated during cooking due to its ease of measurement and low variation in measured values across repeated trials. DB32-00255A is chosen as a particulate matter sensor. DB32-0025A sensor measures particulate matter concentration using light scattering method with a single response time of less than one second and a total response time of no more than ten seconds. It can detect particulates ranging from 0.3 to 10 μm in diameter, with a detection efficiency of 50% for 0.3 μm particles and over 98% for particles larger than 0.5 μm. Arduino Nano is used as the Data acquisition (DaQ) system to obtain time-synchronized data from distinctive sensors. Sensors were mounted at four locations: the front, side, top of the hood, and near the user's nose. Figure 2 shows the actual experimental chamber and the positions where the sensors were mounted.

Figure 2. Test equipment and the location of sensors: (a) Isometric View; (b) Front View.

Although some studies have used water vapor emitted from humidifiers instead of real cooking conditions to simulate pollutants for repeatability purposes, our pilot tests revealed differences from actual cooking conditions and detection issues with the sensor, so the actual cooking process was undergone to generate particulate matter. In this study, mackerel fillets are chosen as cooking material since they are known to generate substantial amounts of particulate matter when roasted at high temperatures [11]. A chimney-type hood (Samsung NK90B8770AP, width 900 mm, depth 400 mm) was used for the experiment, but its motor inverter was modified to allow precise adjustment of the airflow rate. The airflow rate ranged from 0 m3/h (hood off) to 800 m3/h, and no filters other than the baffle filter included in the hood were used to minimize resistance to exhaust.

Test procedure
The experiment design aims to recreate realistic cooking conditions while minimizing external influences such as internal flows caused by human movements. The specific testing procedures are as follows: 
1) adjusting the temperature inside the chamber to 25 ± 2°C and relative humidity to 45 ± 10%, and the PM 2.5 concentration below 10 μg/m3 using external ventilation; 2) placing two frozen mackerel fillets weighing 360 ± 10 g on a 28 cm iron frying pan with the skin side facing downwards; 3) setting the induction cooker timer to operate for 7 minutes without any initial warming period; 4) starting the induction cooker at its maximum power level (1000 W); 5) activating the DaQ board with the start of cooking 6) An operator leaving the chamber and closing the chamber door.
To eliminate any residual organic matter or fine dust in the chamber or on the cooking equipment, the frying pan and induction cooktop were washed with detergent and dried after each experiment. To avoid any measurement bias caused by accumulated pollutants inside the sensors, the sensors underwent post-experiment nitrogen purging to remove contaminants that may remain in the sensors. After the purging process, the accuracy was verified by comparing the readings with a sensor not used for the experiment.

Results and Discussion
Spreading pattern of particulate matter during cooking and effect of range hood operating conditions
Diffusion of particulate matter without operating hood
Before assessing the ventilation effect of the hood, concentration of PM 2.5 was measured without operating the hood to understand the diffusion phenomenon of particulate matters generated during cooking under the absence of any external flows. Figure 3 shows the change in PM 2.5 concentration over time at each measurement location. As indicated in Figure 3, the sensors captured the change of PM 2.5 sequentially in the order of Side, Front, and Ceiling with a few second of time differences. The sensor closest to the cook detected a change in PM 2.5 concentration about two minutes later than the others, with lower absolute PM 2.5 values.

Figure 3. Change in PM 2.5 concentration depending on measurement location when the hood is not operating
The delayed response and reduced sensitivity of the sensor at the "User location" relative to other sensors seemed to be related with the an induction cooktop. Since induction cooktops do not utilize the combustion of the fuel and directly transfer heat to the frying pan, the impact of convection caused by hot combustion gases or heated air is minimized. Because the effect of external air was restricted, the upward flow depended solely on the heat transferred from the food and frying pan. Suppressed advection results in slower lateral diffusion of particulate matters. This result means that when utilizing electricity instead of gas for cooking, as in this study, the particulate matters have already disseminated throughout the kitchen by the time the cook perceives odors or smoke.

Change in concentration of PM 2.5 with hood operation
Figure 4 shows the change in PM 2.5 concentration as a function of the flow rate of the hood. The airflow rate varied from 200 m3/h to 800 m3/h. Those conditions were determined based on the technical specifications of commercially available kitchen hoods. Most domestic kitchen hoods have a maximum airflow rate of around 600 m3/h, as too high flow rates not only increase power consumption and noise but can also create negative pressures indoors. However, many commercially available kitchen hoods offer a temporary "boost" mode lasting up to ten minutes, enabling higher airflow rates. Therefore, the experimental range of this study was expanded to 800 m3/h. In Figure 4, data without operating the hood (= 0 m3/h) at the same location were also recorded for comparison. 

Figure 4. Change in concentration of PM 2.5 at different flow rates of the hood
From Figure 4.(d), it can be seen that the concentration of PM 2.5 at the user's nose position is maintained below 20㎍/m3 throughout the cooking process, even at the lowest flow rate. This results implies that operating the hood is essential to protect individuals from pollutants generated during cooking. It is also noticeable that the concentration of PM 2.5 tends to decrease as the flow rate increases regardless of the location, indicating that the higher the hood's airflow rate, the more effectively it removes pollutants. 
Excluding the user's location where the PM 2.5 concentration is very low when hood is operating, the largest fluctuations in concentration occur at the front and the smallest at the ceiling. This is because the ceiling is farthest away from the cooktop, experiencing the smallest fluctuations from the rising air currents generated during cooking and being indirectly affected by the hood's suction airflow. This finding suggests that if evaluating the kitchen's pollution level using a single sensor, mounting it on the upper section of the hood would provide more accurate correlations.

Figure 5. Average PM 2.5 concentration vs. hood flow rate at the ceiling
Figure 5 displays the average PM 2.5 concentration according to the hood's airflow rate. As mentioned, the ceiling sensor was used due to its lowest fluctuations in values. From Figure 4, it can be seen that it took around two minutes for the sensor to record meaningful PM 2.5 concentration values. Therefore the averaging was done from two minutes to until the completion of cooking, spanning five minutes. As can be seen in Figure 5, an exponential relationship exists between the hood's airflow rate and the mean concentration, consistent with the existing numerical models for indoor ventilation performance estimation [12,13].

Change in PM 2.5 concentration with delayed hood operation
This section describes experiments with delay between the start of cooking and the activation of the hood, assuming either the user forgetting to turn on the hood or relying on sensors for automatic hood operation. Since the previous experiment revealed that it takes approximately two minutes for pollutants to be detected by the sensors after cooking begins, the delay between commencing cooking and initiating the hood operation was set to range from two to ten minutes. Other experimental conditions remained the same, but the hood continued running after the cooking finished until the PM 2.5 concentration of the chamber fell below the "moderate" level defined by Environmental Protection Agency (below 35 ㎍/m3) [14]. Since to the duration of experiments could be extended to 50 minutes depending on experimental conditions, the flow rate of the hood was set to 600 m3/h, the highest flow rate available for the continuous operation.

Figure 6. Change in concentration of PM 2.5 with different time delay of hood operation
Figure 6 shows the time-resolved concentration of PM 2.5 according to the delay in hood operation at each sensor location. The trends in PM 2.5 are similar to those in Figure 4. The sensor mounted at the ceiling records the least fluctuations and PM 2.5 concentration at the user's location remained quite low as long as the hood is turned on, except for a 10-minute delay. The concentration of PM 2.5 peaked between 2.5 and 3 minutes regardless of the delay and then declined as the hood was turned on. For all other cases, a marked reduction in PM 2.5 concentration was observed almost immediately after the hood was turned on, except for the 10-minute delay scenario. In case of the 10-minute delay, the high PM 2.5 concentration was maintained longer after the hood was activated, meaning that a substantial amount of particulate matter had dispersed throughout the kitchen. 
When the 10-minute delay cases were compared in Figure 6, it was revealed that the PM 2.5 concentration remained highest for the longest duration at the ceiling. This suggests that the hood fails to efficiently exhaust particulates accumulated in the top of the kitchen. This might be due to the ceiling's greater distance from the hood compared to other locations, along with its vertical upward location while the suction surface of the hood is facing vertically downward.

Figure 7. Recovery time vs. Average PM 2.5 concentration at the ceiling
The time taken for the PM 2.5 concentration to fall below the threshold of 35 ㎍/m3 after cooking is completed, along with the average PM 2.5 concentration until that moment, is displayed in Figure 7. Similar to Figure 5, the value from the sensor mounted at the ceiling was adopted as the representative value due to its smallest fluctuation. Contrary to the exponential relationship between PM 2.5 concentration and airflow rate shown in Figure 6, a linear correlation was observed between the recovery time and average PM 2.5 concentration.

Conclusions
This study experimentally verified the diffusion pattern of pollutants generated during cooking using electric stoves. Particulate matter was selected as the representative pollutant indicator, and then change of PM 2.5 concentration was measured across different locations in the kitchen under the various operating conditions of the range hood. Also, the relationships among the average PM 2.5 concentration and the operating parameters of the hood were also derived. The following conclusions are obtained from the experimental results.
1) Contaminants generated from the cooktop during cooking move through vertically first. Compared to area near the hoods and ceiling of the kitchen, there is a delay the pollutants reach to the user's position. This result means contaminants initially ascend vertically along the rising currents before dispersing throughout the kitchen.
2) When the hood operated, turbulent airflow resulted in significant variations in PM 2.5 concentration. The ceiling sensor, situated opposite to the hood's suction plane, exhibited the lowest fluctuations.
3) An exponential relationship was observed between the airflow rate of the hood and the average PM 2.5 concentration during cooking. The PM 2.5 concentration remained low even at relatively low airflow rates, particularly at the user's location. This emphasizes the importance of operating the hood during cooking as an effective measure to protect against pollutants generated during cooking.
4) When there was a time delay between the start of cooking and the activation of the hood, shorter delays led to a simultaneous decline in PM 2.5 concentration upon operating the hood. However, when the delay lengthened and allowed pollutants to disperse throughout the kitchen, a considerable amount of time elapsed before the PM 2.5 concentration began decreasing after the hood was turned on; Especially accumulated pollutants at the ceiling required a longer time for ventilation.
5) A linear relationship was observed between the average PM 2.5 concentration during cooking and the time required to reduce the PM 2.5 concentration to a certain level through hood operation.
The findings of this work provide insights into the diffusion patterns of pollutants in kitchens during cooking and efficient exhaust strategies. They can also serve as base data for constructing automated indoor ventilation systems combining sensors and IoT technology, which would be useful for HVAC engineers. However, for more comprehensive understanding of indoor air quality management, further studies that focus on the diffusion patterns of various gaseous pollutants generated during cooking, and experiments employing different heat sources, such as gas burners and electric heater stoves, should also be incorporated.

References
[1] Klepsis N., Nelson, W, Ott W, Robinson JP, Tsang AM, Switzer P, et al, Engelmann WH. The National Human Activity Pattern Survey (NHAPS): a resource for assessing exposure to environmental pollutants. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol 11, 231–252 (2001). https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.jea.7500165
[2] World Health Organization., and World Health Organization. The World Health Report: Reducing Risks, Promoting Healthy Life. 2002. Geneva: World Health Organization, 2002 
[3] Spain, Universitat Jaume I. Assessment of the health impacts and costs associated with indoor nitrogen dioxide exposure related to gas cooking in the European Union and the United Kingdom. [cited Dec 11, 2024]. Available from: https://repositori.uji.es/items/156fbd65-070d-4ca4-9856-9415513d505f
[4] Wan MP, Wu CL, Sze-To GN, Chan, TC, Chao CYH. Ultrafine particles, and PM2.5 generated from cooking in homes. Atmospheric. Environment 2011; 45:6141–6148
[5] Kreyling, WG, Semmler-Behnke M, Möller W. Ultrafine Particle–Lung Interactions: Does Size Matter?. Journal of aerosol medicine 2006;19:74-83.
[6] Metayer C, Wang Z, Kleinerman RA, Wang L, Brenner AV, Cui H, et al. Cooking oil fumes and risk of lung cancer in women in rural Gansu, China, Lung Cancer 2002; 35: 111-117.
[7] Dobbin NA, Sun L, Wallace L, Kulka R, You H, Shin T, et al. The benefit of kitchen exhaust fan use after cooking - An experimental assessment, Building and Environment 2018; 135: 286-296,
[8] Sun L, Wallace LA., Dobbin NA, You H, Kulka R, Shin T, et al. Effect of venting range hood flow rate on size-resolved ultrafine particle concentrations from gas stove cooking. Aerosol Science and Technology 2018;52(12): 1370–1381.
[9] Oh CH, Kim SJ, Lee SJ, Seo ER. Numerical assessment of the effect of ventilation capability of kitchen hoods depending on operating conditions, design parameters, and installation location. Journal of Mechanical Science and Technology 2023; 37: 4081–4090
[10] IEC 61591:2020, Cooking Fume Extractors - Methods for Measuring Performance, International Electrotechnical Commission 2019.
[11] Won SR, Ji HA, Kwon M, Hwang SE, Lee JS, Shim IK. Characteristics of Particles and Gaseous Pollutants Generated from Roasting Fish and Meat in Kitchens. Journal of Environmental Analysis, Health and Toxicology 2019;22(4): 224-229.
[12] Madsen U, Breum NO, Nielsen PV. Local exhaust ventilation—a numerical and experimental study of capture efficiency 1994, Building and Environment 1994;29 (3): 319–323.
[13] Chen Q, Lee K, Mazumdar S, Poussou, S, Wang L, Wang, M, Zhang, Z. Ventilation performance prediction for buildings: Model assessment. Building and Environment 2010; 45:295–303.
[14] The United States, Environmental Protection Agency. Air Monitoring for Fine Particle Pollution (PM2.5) Fact Sheet. [cited Dec 11, 2024]. Available from: https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2024-02/pm-naaqs-monitoring-fact-sheet.pdf
